JSON API Reference: Relationships
=================================

Relationships are used to capture the connectedness of data amongst tables. In a
relational database, when modelling data we add foreign key constraints to
establish connections between various tables. 

Let's consider a simple scenario where there are two tables ``article`` and
``author``. The ``article`` table (child) has a column ``author_id`` which
points to the ``id`` column of ``author`` table (parent). When we fetch a row
from the article table, we may need the author information along with article
columns. Similarly, when we fetch a row from the author table, we may need the
articles written by the author along with the author columns. 

In general, when retrieving data from tables, it is very helpful if we can also
fetch the related data alongside the columns. This is where relationships come
in. They can be considered as pseudo columns for a table to access the related
data. In the above example, the relationships that we can define are 

1. ``author`` in ``article`` table
2. ``articles`` in ``author`` table

As you may have noticed, there are two kinds of relationships,
object/many-to-one relationships (author) and array/one-to-many relationships
(articles). From now on, we'll only use ``object`` and ``array`` relationships
as terminology. 

.. _obj_rel_example:

Let's define these relationships:

.. code-block:: http
   :emphasize-lines: 11

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type": "create_object_relationship",
       "args": {
           "table": "article",
           "name": "author",
           "using": {
               "foreign_key_constraint_on" : "author_id"
           }
       }
   }

This reads as follows:

Create an *object relationship* ``author`` on ``article`` *table*,  *using* the
*foreign_key_constraint_on* the ``author_id`` column. 

.. _arr_rel_example:

.. code-block:: http
   :emphasize-lines: 11-14

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type": "create_array_relationship",
       "args": {
           "table": "author",
           "name": "articles",
           "using": {
               "foreign_key_constraint_on" : {
                   "table" : "article",
                   "column" : "author_id"
               }
           }
       }
   }

Create an *array relationship* ``articles`` on ``author`` *table*,  *using* the
*foreign_key_constraint_on* the ``author_id`` column of the ``article`` table. 

The syntax is slightly different for creating an object and an array
relationship. But, note that in both the cases, we are doing the same thing,
i.e, specifying the column on which the foreign key constraint is defined. 

.. _create_object_relationship:

create_object_relationship
--------------------------

``create_object_relationship`` is used to create an object relationship on a
table. There cannot be an existing column or relationship with the same name. 

There are 2 ways in which you can create an object relationship.

1. Using foreign key constraint on a column
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can look at :ref:`this <obj_rel_example>` example.

.. _manual_obj_relationship:

2. Manual configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is an advanced feature which is mostly used to define relationships on or
to views. We cannot rely on foreign key constraints as they are not valid to or
from views. So, when using manual configuration, we have to specify the remote
table and how each of the columns in this table are mapped to the columns of the
remote table. 

Let's say we have a view called ``article_detail`` which has three columns
``article_id`` and ``view_count`` and ``average_rating``. We can now define an
object relationship called ``article_detail`` on the ``article`` table as
follows: 
 
.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type": "create_object_relationship",
       "args": {
           "table": "article",
           "name": "article_detail",
           "using": {
               "manual_configuration" : {
                   "remote_table" : "article_detail",
                   "column_mapping" : {
                       "id" : "article_id"
                   }
               }
           }
       }
   }

.. note::

   It is easy to shoot yourself in the foot when using ``manual_configuration``.
   One simple check is to ensure that foreign key constraint semantics are valid
   on the columns being used in ``column_mapping``. In the previous example, if
   it was allowed, a foreign key constraint could have been defined on
   ``article`` table's ``id`` column to ``article_count`` view's ``article_id``
   column. 

Syntax
^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - table
     - true
     - :ref:`TableName <TableName>`
     - Name of the table
   * - name
     - true
     - :ref:`RelationshipName <RelationshipName>`
     - Name of the new relationship
   * - using
     - true
     - ObjRelUsing_
     - Use one of the available ways to define object relationship
   * - comment
     - false
     - text
     - comment

.. _ObjRelUsing:

``ObjRelUsing``
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - foreign_key_constraint_on
     - false
     - :ref:`PGColumn <PGColumn>`
     - The column with foreign key constraint
   * - manual_configuration
     - false
     - ObjRelUsingManualMapping_
     - Manual mapping of table and columns

.. note::

   There has to be at least one and only one of ``foreign_key_constraint_on``
   and ``manual_mapping``. 


``ObjRelUsingManualMapping``
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - remote_table
     - true
     - :ref:`TableName <TableName>`
     - The table to which the relationship has to be established
   * - column_mapping
     - true
     - Object (:ref:`PGColumn <PGColumn>` : :ref:`PGColumn <PGColumn>`)
     - Mapping of columns from current table to remote table

.. _create_array_relationship:

create_array_relationship
-------------------------

``create_array_relationship`` is used to create an array relationship on a
table. There cannot be an existing column or relationship with the same name. 

There are 2 ways in which you can create an array relationship.

1. Using foreign key constraint on a column
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can look at :ref:`this <arr_rel_example>` example.

2. Manual configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is an advanced feature which is mostly used to define relationships on or
to views. We cannot rely on foreign key constraints as they are not valid to or
from views. So, when using manual configuration, we have to specify the remote
table and how each of the columns in this table are mapped to the columns of the
remote table. 

Syntax
^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - table
     - true
     - :ref:`TableName <TableName>`
     - Name of the table
   * - name
     - true
     - :ref:`RelationshipName <RelationshipName>`
     - Name of the new relationship
   * - using
     - true
     - ArrRelUsing_
     - Use one of the available ways to define array relationship
   * - comment
     - false
     - text
     - comment

.. _ArrRelUsing:

``ArrRelUsing``
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - foreign_key_constraint_on
     - false
     - ArrRelUsingFKeyOn_
     - The column with foreign key constraint
   * - manual_mapping
     - false
     - ArrRelUsingManualMapping_
     - Manual mapping of table and columns

``ArrRelUsingFKeyOn``
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - table
     - true
     - :ref:`TableName <TableName>`
     - Name of the table
   * - column
     - true
     - :ref:`PGColumn <PGColumn>`
     - Name of the column with foreign key constraint

``ArrRelUsingManualMapping``
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - remote_table
     - true
     - :ref:`TableName <TableName>`
     - The table to which the relationship has to be established
   * - column_mapping
     - true
     - Object (:ref:`PGColumn <PGColumn>` : :ref:`PGColumn <PGColumn>`)
     - Mapping of columns from current table to remote table

.. _drop_relationship:

drop_relationship
-----------------

``drop_relationship`` is used to drop a relationship (both object and array) on
a table. If there are other objects dependent on this relationship like
permissions and query templates, the query will fail reporting the dependencies
unless ``cascade`` is set to ``true``. If ``cascade`` is set to ``true``, the
dependent objects are also dropped. 

An example:

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type": "drop_relationship",
       "args": {
           "table": "article",
           "relationship": "article_detail"
       }
   }


Syntax
^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - table
     - true
     - :ref:`TableName <TableName>`
     - Name of the table
   * - name
     - true
     - :ref:`RelationshipName <RelationshipName>`
     - Name of the relationship that needs to be dropped
   * - cascade
     - false
     - Boolean
     - When set to ``true``, all the dependent items on this relationship are also dropped

.. note::

   Be careful when using ``cascade``. First, try running the query without
   ``cascade`` or ``cascade`` set to ``false``.

.. _set_relationship_comment:

set_relationship_comment
------------------------

``set_relationship_comment`` is used to set/update the comment on a
relationship. Setting the comment to ``null`` removes it. 

An example:

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type": "set_relationship_comment",
       "args": {
           "table": "article",
           "name": "article_detail",
           "comment" : "has extra information about an article like count etc."
       }
   }

Syntax
^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - table
     - true
     - :ref:`TableName <TableName>`
     - Name of the table
   * - name
     - true
     - :ref:`RelationshipName <RelationshipName>`
     - The relationship
   * - comment
     - false
     - Text
     - comment
