docs/graphql/manual/guides/integrations/graphcool-migration.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Instructions to migrate your graph.cool project to Hasura
   :keywords: hasura, docs, guide, GraphQL subscriptions, apollo, apollo-client

.. _graphcool_migration:

Migrate from graph.cool to Hasura
=================================

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

If you are looking to migrate your graph.cool project to Hasura, these are the steps that you will need to roughly follow.

Migrating data
--------------

Step 1: Export data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Export your Graph.cool data using their `export tool <https://export.graph.cool>`__. This will give a MySQL binary dump of your current data.

.. thumbnail:: ../../../../img/graphql/manual/guides/graphcool-export.png
   :alt: Graph.cool Export

Step 2: Start MySQL with Docker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

   docker run --name graphcool-mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-secret-pw -p 3306:3306 -d mysql:latest --default-authentication-plugin=mysql_native_password

Replace the password as required.

Step 3: Connect to MySQL via mysql CLI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

   mysql --user=root --password=my-secret-pw --host=<host>

Replace the host and password as necessary.

Step 4: Create a database in MySQL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

   create database public;

Step 5: Import data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Import graphcool's MySQL export into your local MySQL instance

.. code-block:: bash

   mysql --user=root --password=my-secret-pw --host=<host> public --binary-mode=1 < <pathtomysqlexport>

Replace host and pathtomysqlexport as required. This step should have migrated schema with the data.

6. Start Hasura and Postgres using docker-compose
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since MySQL is now set up with all the data from graph.cool, we need to create Hasura and Postgres instance to proceed.

Refer to the :ref:`Getting started <docker_simple>` guide to setup Hasura using ``docker-compose``.

We will use ``pgloader`` to migrate from MySQL to Postgres. Refer to their `installation guide <https://github.com/dimitri/pgloader>`__ for setting this up.

Once you have installed, execute the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   pgloader mysql://root:my-secret-pw@<host>/public postgresql://postgres:postgrespassword@<host>:5432/postgres

Replace ``<host>`` as necessary.

This step should have migrated data from MySQL to Postgres.

Connect Hasura to Postgres
--------------------------

Once the dataset is migrated to Postgres, Hasura should be able to track tables and relationships. 

You might also want to look at how to :ref:`configure enums <enums_graphql_engine>` in case you have them in your Graph.cool project. 

Restructuring connection tables
-------------------------------

Now you can rename tables/columns to match your client-side queries as required. 
Do note that, for every one-to-one relationship, Graph.cool would have created a connection table to link them. This would require a bit of work to restructure. 
Currently, there is no automation available for this step. Carefully review the connection tables and make the necessary changes.

Migrating functions
-------------------

In case you have functions in Graph.cool, Hasura has an equivalent feature called :ref:`event triggers <event_triggers>`. Migrating this involves taking your code and deploying it on a different platform (preferably serverless functions).

Do note that for event triggers, the payload that Hasura sends might be different and you might have to change the way request body parameters are handled in your function code.


Migrating auth
--------------

If you were using Auth0 with Graph.cool, the migration should be fairly straightforward. You can configure Hasura with Auth0 easily by following :ref:`this guide <guides_auth0_jwt>`.

Migrating permissions
---------------------

The CRUD permissions in Graph.cool can be manually migrated to Hasura's permission system. You can define roles in Hasura and configure permissions declaratively for all the CRUD operations. 
Refer to :ref:`this page <authorization>` for configuring Hasura permissions.

.. note::

   This guide is not comprehensive and some steps require manual intervention.

Commit message:

add more instructions for auth

docs/graphql/manual/guides/integrations/graphcool-migration.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Instructions to migrate your graph.cool project to Hasura
   :keywords: hasura, docs, guide, GraphQL subscriptions, apollo, apollo-client

.. _graphcool_migration:

Migrate from graph.cool to Hasura
=================================

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

If you are looking to migrate your graph.cool project to Hasura, these are the steps that you will need to roughly follow.

Migrating data
--------------

Step 1: Export data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Export your Graph.cool data using their `export tool <https://export.graph.cool>`__. This will give a MySQL binary dump of your current data.

.. thumbnail:: ../../../../img/graphql/manual/guides/graphcool-export.png
   :alt: Graph.cool Export

Step 2: Start MySQL with Docker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

   docker run --name graphcool-mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-secret-pw -p 3306:3306 -d mysql:latest --default-authentication-plugin=mysql_native_password

Replace the password as required.

Step 3: Connect to MySQL via mysql CLI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

   mysql --user=root --password=my-secret-pw --host=<host>

Replace the host and password as necessary.

Step 4: Create a database in MySQL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

   create database public;

Step 5: Import data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Import graphcool's MySQL export into your local MySQL instance

.. code-block:: bash

   mysql --user=root --password=my-secret-pw --host=<host> public --binary-mode=1 < <pathtomysqlexport>

Replace host and pathtomysqlexport as required. This step should have migrated schema with the data.

6. Start Hasura and Postgres using docker-compose
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since MySQL is now set up with all the data from graph.cool, we need to create Hasura and Postgres instance to proceed.

Refer to the :ref:`Getting started <docker_simple>` guide to setup Hasura using ``docker-compose``.

We will use ``pgloader`` to migrate from MySQL to Postgres. Refer to their `installation guide <https://github.com/dimitri/pgloader>`__ for setting this up.

Once you have installed, execute the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   pgloader mysql://root:my-secret-pw@<host>/public postgresql://postgres:postgrespassword@<host>:5432/postgres

Replace ``<host>`` as necessary.

This step should have migrated data from MySQL to Postgres.

Connect Hasura to Postgres
--------------------------

Once the dataset is migrated to Postgres, Hasura should be able to track tables and relationships. 

You might also want to look at how to :ref:`configure enums <enums_graphql_engine>` in case you have them in your Graph.cool project. 

Restructuring connection tables
-------------------------------

Now you can rename tables/columns to match your client-side queries as required. 
Do note that, for every one-to-one relationship, Graph.cool would have created a connection table to link them. This would require a bit of work to restructure. 
Currently, there is no automation available for this step. Carefully review the connection tables and make the necessary changes.

Migrating functions
-------------------

In case you have functions in Graph.cool, Hasura has an equivalent feature called :ref:`event triggers <event_triggers>`. Migrating this involves taking your code and deploying it on a different platform (preferably serverless functions).

Do note that for event triggers, the payload that Hasura sends might be different and you might have to change the way request body parameters are handled in your function code.


Migrating auth
--------------

There are two ways to Authenticate users in Graph.cool.

1. Using Auth0
2. Using Email-Password Auth.

If you were using Auth0 with Graph.cool, the migration should be fairly straightforward. You can configure Hasura with Auth0 easily by following :ref:`this guide <guides_auth0_jwt>`.

In case you are using Email-Password Auth, Graph.cool generates mutations for 

- creating a user ``createUser(authProvider: { email: { email, password } })`` and 
- login ``signinUser(email: { email, password })``. 

You will need to implement these custom mutations using :ref:`Hasura Actions <actions>`. 

Refer to this example for a `custom signup mutation <https://github.com/hasura/hasura-actions-examples/tree/master/auth>`__.

Migrating permissions
---------------------

The CRUD permissions in Graph.cool can be manually migrated to Hasura's permission system. You can define roles in Hasura and configure permissions declaratively for all the CRUD operations. 
Refer to :ref:`this page <authorization>` for configuring Hasura permissions.

.. note::

   This guide is not comprehensive and some steps require manual intervention.
