docs/graphql/manual/actions/async-actions.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Async actions
   :keywords: hasura, docs, actions, async actions

.. _async_actions:

Async actions
=============

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

Sometimes you may not want to wait for an action to complete before sending a
response back to the client (say if the business logic takes a long time). In
such cases you can create an **asynchronous** action, which returns an
``action_id`` immediately to the client before contacting the handler.

If you mark an action as **asynchronous**, Hasura also generates a
``query`` and a ``subscription`` field for the action so that you can
query/subscribe to its status.

For example, let's say ``place_order`` is an asynchronous action

.. code-block:: graphql

   mutation placeOrderRequest($order_input: place_order_input!) {
     place_order(input: $order_input) 
   }

Executing this mutation will return a response like:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "data": {
       "place_order": "23b1c256-7aff-4b95-95bd-68220d9f93f2"
     }
   }

The returned ``uuid`` is the ``action id`` of the async action. To get the actual
response of the action, you can ``query`` or ``subscribe`` to the action
using this ``action id``.

.. code-block:: graphql

    subscription getPlaceOrderResponse {
      place_order (id: "23b1c256-7aff-4b95-95bd-68220d9f93f2") {
        output
        errors
      }
    }

Commit message:

[skip ci] server(actions): add support for queries (close #4032) (#4309)
* add support for action queries

* a new parameter `type` is added in the ArgumentDefinition, its value
  can be either `query` or `mutation` and it defaults to the latter

* throw 400 when a query action is tried to explain

* update the actions docs to include query actions

* refactor the ToJSON and ToOrdJSON of ActionDefinition

Co-authored-by: Rishichandra Wawhal <rishi@hasura.io>
Co-authored-by: Tirumarai Selvan <tiru@hasura.io>

docs/graphql/manual/actions/async-actions.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Async actions
   :keywords: hasura, docs, actions, async actions

.. _async_actions:

Async actions
=============

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

Sometimes you may not want to wait for an action to complete before sending a
response back to the client (say if the business logic takes a long time). In
such cases you can create an **asynchronous** action, which returns an
``action_id`` immediately to the client before contacting the handler.

If you mark an action as **asynchronous**, Hasura also generates a
``query`` and a ``subscription`` field for the action so that you can
query/subscribe to its status.

.. admonition:: Note

  Only actions of type ``mutation`` can be async. Actions of type query are always executed synchronously.

For example, let's say ``place_order`` is an asynchronous action

.. code-block:: graphql

   mutation placeOrderRequest($order_input: place_order_input!) {
     place_order(input: $order_input) 
   }

Executing this mutation will return a response like:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "data": {
       "place_order": "23b1c256-7aff-4b95-95bd-68220d9f93f2"
     }
   }

The returned ``uuid`` is the ``action id`` of the async action. To get the actual
response of the action, you can ``query`` or ``subscribe`` to the action
using this ``action id``.

.. code-block:: graphql

    subscription getPlaceOrderResponse {
      place_order (id: "23b1c256-7aff-4b95-95bd-68220d9f93f2") {
        output
        errors
      }
    }
