docs/graphql/manual/guides/deployment/index.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Guides for deploying Hasura
   :keywords: hasura, docs, guide, deployment

.. _guides_deployment:

Guides: Deployment
==================

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

- `One-click deployment with Hasura Cloud <https://hasura.io/docs/cloud/1.0/manual/getting-started/index.html>`__
- :ref:`One-click deployment with Heroku <heroku_quickstart>`
- :ref:`Digital Ocean One-click App on Marketplace <deploy_do_marketplace>`
- :ref:`Azure Container Instances with Postgres <deploy_azure_ci_pg>`
- :ref:`Google Cloud Platform with Kubernetes engine and Cloud SQL <deploy_gc_kubernetes>`
- :ref:`Render One-Click Deploy with Managed PostgreSQL <deploy_render>`
- `Blog: Instant GraphQL on AWS RDS <https://hasura.io/blog/instant-graphql-on-aws-rds-1edfb85b5985>`__

.. note::
   The above are guides to deploy the Hasura GraphQL engine on some specific platforms.

   For more generic guides, see :ref:`deployment`.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :titlesonly:
   :hidden:

   Heroku One-click deployment <heroku-quickstart>
   DigitalOcean One-click App on Marketplace <digital-ocean-one-click>
   Azure Container Instances with Postgres <azure-container-instances-postgres>
   Google Cloud Platform with Kubernetes engine and Cloud SQL <google-kubernetes-engine-cloud-sql>
   Render One-click Deploy with managed PostgreSQL <render-one-click>

Commit message:

docs: add Nhost one-click deployment to deployment guides (#5180)

docs/graphql/manual/guides/deployment/index.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Guides for deploying Hasura
   :keywords: hasura, docs, guide, deployment

.. _guides_deployment:

Guides: Deployment
==================

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

- `One-click deployment with Hasura Cloud <https://hasura.io/docs/cloud/1.0/manual/getting-started/index.html>`__
- :ref:`One-click deployment with Heroku <heroku_quickstart>`
- :ref:`Digital Ocean One-click App on Marketplace <deploy_do_marketplace>`
- :ref:`Azure Container Instances with Postgres <deploy_azure_ci_pg>`
- :ref:`Google Cloud Platform with Kubernetes engine and Cloud SQL <deploy_gc_kubernetes>`
- :ref:`Render One-click Deploy with Managed PostgreSQL <deploy_render>`
- :ref:`Nhost One-click Deploy with Managed PostgreSQL, Storage, and Auth <deploy_nhost>`
- `Blog: Instant GraphQL on AWS RDS <https://hasura.io/blog/instant-graphql-on-aws-rds-1edfb85b5985>`__

.. note::
   The above are guides to deploy the Hasura GraphQL engine on some specific platforms.

   For more generic guides, see :ref:`deployment`.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :titlesonly:
   :hidden:

   Heroku One-click deployment <heroku-quickstart>
   DigitalOcean One-click App on Marketplace <digital-ocean-one-click>
   Azure Container Instances with Postgres <azure-container-instances-postgres>
   Google Cloud Platform with Kubernetes engine and Cloud SQL <google-kubernetes-engine-cloud-sql>
   Render One-click Deploy with managed PostgreSQL <render-one-click>
   Nhost One-click Deploy with managed PostgreSQL, Storage, and Auth <nhost-one-click>
