docs/graphql/manual/schema/relationships/action-relationships.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Adding an action relationship with Hasura
   :keywords: hasura, docs, action relationship, remote join

.. _add_action_relationship:

Creating action relationships
=============================

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

Introduction
------------

:ref:`Actions <actions>` are a way to extend Hasura’s schema with custom business logic using custom queries and mutations. They can be used to call a REST endpoint from Hasura as a resolver for custom types. They are especially useful for setting up serverless functions as resolvers.

After you :ref:`create <create_actions>` or :ref:`derive <derive_actions>` an action, you can create relationships for it.

Step 1: Open the action relationship section
--------------------------------------------

- From your action, go to the ``Relationships`` tab.
- Click ``Add a relationship``.

.. thumbnail:: /img/graphql/manual/remote-joins/action-rel.png
   :alt: Opening the action relationship section
   :width: 559px

In this example, we're creating a relationship for the ``createUser`` action.

Step 2: Define the relationship
-------------------------------

In the section opened by the above step, fill out the following fields:

- **Relationship type**: Select a :ref:`type of relationship <relationship_database_modelling>`.

  - **Object relationship**: For one-to-one relationships.
  - **Array relationship**: For one-to-many relationships.

- **Relationship name**: Create a name for the relationship.
- **Reference schema**: Select a reference schema from your database.
- **Reference table**: Select a table from your database.
- **From**: Select a field returned in the action response.
- **To**: Select a column from the reference table to join the field to.

.. thumbnail:: /img/graphql/manual/remote-joins/define-action-rel.png
   :alt: Defining the relationship
   :width: 850px

In this example, we're creating a relationship called ``user``, from the ``id`` field returned in the action response, to the ``id`` column of the ``users`` table.

Step 3: Explore with GraphiQL
-----------------------------

In the GraphiQL tab, test out your action relationship.

.. graphiql::
  :view_only:
  :query:
    mutation {
      createUser(name: "Hodor") {
        id
        user {
          name
          auth0_id
        }
      }
    }
  :response:
    {
      "data": {
        "createUser": {
          "id": "7ffd68ba-535e-4c72-9051-17cd4e8ed594",
          "user": {
            "name": "Hodor",
            "auth0_id": "hodor|hodor"
          }
        }
      }
    }

|

If your table has an existing remote relationship, here you can also get the fields from the remote schema.

.. graphiql::
  :view_only:
  :query:
    mutation {
      createUser(name: "Hodor") {
        id
        user {
          name
          auth0_id
          auth0_profile {
            email
            nickname
            last_login
          }          
        }
      }
    }
  :response:
    {
      "data": {
        "createUser": {
          "id": "7ffd68ba-535e-4c72-9051-17cd4e8ed594",
          "user": {
            "name": "Hodor",
            "auth0_id": "hodor|hodor",
            "auth0_profile": {
              "email": "hodor@hodor.com",
              "nickname": "Hodor",
              "last_login": "2016-05-22T01:35:48.863Z"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }

In the :ref:`add_remote_relationship` section, we joined our ``users`` table with a remote `Auth0 <https://auth0.com/>`__ schema. Here, we're able to get the Auth0 profile data of the user returned from our action.

Commit message:

moar tweaks from PR review (fix #4911)

docs/graphql/manual/schema/relationships/action-relationships.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Adding an action relationship with Hasura
   :keywords: hasura, docs, action relationship, remote join

.. _add_action_relationship:

Creating action relationships
=============================

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

Introduction
------------

:ref:`Actions <actions>` are a way to extend Hasura’s schema with custom business logic using custom queries and mutations. The resolvers for these custom fields are written in REST endpoints. They are especially useful for setting up serverless functions as resolvers.

After you :ref:`create <create_actions>` or :ref:`derive <derive_actions>` an action, you can create relationships for it.

Step 1: Open the action relationship section
--------------------------------------------

- From your action, go to the ``Relationships`` tab.
- Click ``Add a relationship``.

.. thumbnail:: /img/graphql/manual/remote-joins/action-rel.png
   :alt: Opening the action relationship section
   :width: 559px

In this example, we're creating a relationship for the ``createUser`` action.

Step 2: Define the relationship
-------------------------------

In the section opened by the above step, fill out the following fields:

- **Relationship type**: Select a :ref:`type of relationship <relationship_database_modelling>`.

  - **Object relationship**: For one-to-one relationships.
  - **Array relationship**: For one-to-many relationships.

- **Relationship name**: Create a name for the relationship.
- **Reference schema**: Select a reference schema from your database.
- **Reference table**: Select a table from your database.
- **From**: Select a field returned in the action response.
- **To**: Select a column from the reference table to join the field to.

.. thumbnail:: /img/graphql/manual/remote-joins/define-action-rel.png
   :alt: Defining the relationship
   :width: 850px

In this example, we're creating a relationship called ``user``, from the ``id`` field returned in the action response, to the ``id`` column of the ``users`` table.

Step 3: Explore with GraphiQL
-----------------------------

In the GraphiQL tab, test out your action relationship.

.. graphiql::
  :view_only:
  :query:
    mutation {
      createUser(name: "Hodor") {
        id
        user {
          name
          auth0_id
        }
      }
    }
  :response:
    {
      "data": {
        "createUser": {
          "id": "7ffd68ba-535e-4c72-9051-17cd4e8ed594",
          "user": {
            "name": "Hodor",
            "auth0_id": "hodor|hodor"
          }
        }
      }
    }

|

If your table has an existing remote relationship, here you can also get the fields from the remote schema.

.. graphiql::
  :view_only:
  :query:
    mutation {
      createUser(name: "Hodor") {
        id
        user {
          name
          auth0_id
          auth0_profile {
            email
            nickname
            last_login
          }          
        }
      }
    }
  :response:
    {
      "data": {
        "createUser": {
          "id": "7ffd68ba-535e-4c72-9051-17cd4e8ed594",
          "user": {
            "name": "Hodor",
            "auth0_id": "hodor|hodor",
            "auth0_profile": {
              "email": "hodor@hodor.com",
              "nickname": "Hodor",
              "last_login": "2016-05-22T01:35:48.863Z"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }

In the :ref:`add_remote_relationship` section, we joined our ``users`` table with a remote `Auth0 <https://auth0.com/>`__ schema. Here, we're able to get the Auth0 profile data of the user returned from our action.
