docs/graphql/manual/migrations/config-v1/manage-migrations.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Manage migrations on an existing database and Hasura instance
   :keywords: hasura, docs, migration, existing database

.. _manage_migrations_v1:

Managing Postgres schema migrations and metadata (config v1)
============================================================

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

Introduction
------------

If you don't already use any tool to manage your Postgres schema, you can use
Hasura to do that for you. Hasura has a CLI which will help you save each
action that you do on the console, including creating tables/views and schema
modifying SQL statements, as YAML files. These files are called migrations and
they can be applied and rolled back step-by-step. These files can be version
controlled and can be used with your CI/CD system to make incremental updates.

Let's say we have the following two tables in our schema:

.. code-block:: sql

    author (id uuid, name text, rating integer)
    article (id uuid, title text, content text, author_id uuid)

Now we want to set up migrations for this schema.

Step 0: Disable the console on the server
-----------------------------------------

To use migrations effectively, the console on the server (which is served at
``/console``) should be disabled and all changes must go through the console
served by the CLI. Otherwise, changes could be made through the server console
and they will not be tracked by migrations.

So, the first step is to disable the console served by the GraphQL engine server. In
order to do that, remove the ``--enable-console`` flag from the command that starts
the server or set the following environment variable to false:

.. code-block:: bash

   HASURA_GRAPHQL_ENABLE_CONSOLE=false

.. note::

   If this is set in YAML, make sure you quote the word false, i.e.
   ``HASURA_GRAPHQL_ENABLE_CONSOLE: "false"``.

Step 1: Install the Hasura CLI
------------------------------

Follow the instructions in :ref:`install_hasura_cli`.

Step 2: Set up a project directory
----------------------------------

For the endpoint referred here, let's say you've
deployed the GraphQL engine on Heroku, then this endpoint is:
``https://my-graphql.herokuapp.com``. In case you've deployed this using Docker,
the URL might be ``http://xx.xx.xx.xx:8080``. This endpoint should **not** contain
the ``v1/graphql`` API path. It should just be the hostname and any
sub-path if it is configured that way. 

Let's set up a project directory by executing the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  hasura init --directory my-project --endpoint http://my-graphql.herokuapp.com

  cd my-project

This will create a new directory called ``my-project`` with a ``config.yaml``
file and a ``migrations`` directory. This directory structure is mandatory to use
Hasura migrations. You can commit this directory to version control.

.. note::

   In case there is an admin secret set, you can set it as an environment
   variable ``HASURA_GRAPHQL_ADMIN_SECRET=<your-admin-secret>`` on the local
   machine and the CLI will use it. You can also use it as a flag to CLI:
   ``--admin-secret '<your-admin-secret>'``.

Step 3: Initialize the migrations (optional)
--------------------------------------------

In case you have already set up your database we will need to initialize our
migrations with the current state of the database.

Create a migration called ``init`` by exporting the current Postgres schema and
metadata from the server:

.. code-block:: bash

   # (available after version v1.0.0-alpha45)
   # create migration files (note that this will only export the public schema from postgres)
   hasura migrate create "init" --from-server

   # note down the version
   # mark the migration as applied on this server
   hasura migrate apply --version "<version>" --skip-execution


This command will create a new migration under the ``migrations`` directory
with the file name as ``<timestamp(version)>_init.up.yaml``. This file will
contain the required information to reproduce the current state of the server
including the Postgres (public) schema and Hasura metadata. The apply command
will mark this migration as "applied" on the server. If you'd like to read more
about the format of migration files, check out the :ref:`migration_file_format_v1`.

.. note::

   From version x.xx and higher, the migrations are created as directories, for example: ``<timestamp>_create_table_public_author``.
   The directory contains a called ``up.yaml`` and - if applicable - a file called ``down.yaml``.

.. note::

  If you need to export other schemas along with ``public``, you can name them using the
  ``--schema`` flag. 
  
  For example, to export schemas ``public``, ``schema1`` and ``schema2``,
  execute the following command:

  .. code-block:: bash

     hasura migrate create "init" --from-server --schema "public" --schema "schema1" --schema "schema2"

Step 4: Use the console from the CLI
------------------------------------

From this point onwards, instead of using the console at
``http://my-graphql.herokuapp.com/console`` you should use the console from the CLI
by running:

.. code-block:: bash

   # in project dir
   hasura console

Step 5: Add a new table and see how a migration is added
--------------------------------------------------------

As you use the Hasura console UI to make changes to your schema, migration files
are automatically generated in the ``migrations/`` directory in your project.

Let's add the following table to our schema:

.. code-block:: sql

    address (id uuid, street text, zip text, city text, country text)

In the migrations directory, you should now see a new migration created for the above statement.

.. note::

   Migrations are only created when using the console through CLI.

Step 6: Apply the migrations on another instance of the GraphQL engine
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Apply all migrations present in the ``migrations/`` directory on a new
instance at ``http://another-graphql-instance.herokuapp.com``:

.. code-block:: bash

   # in project dir
   hasura migrate apply --endpoint http://another-graphql-instance.herokuapp.com

In case you need an automated way of applying the migrations, take a look at the
:ref:`CLI-Migrations <auto_apply_migrations_v1>` Docker image, which can start the
GraphQL engine after automatically applying the migrations which are
mounted into a directory.

If you now open the console of the new instance, you can see that the three tables have been created and are tracked:

.. thumbnail:: /img/graphql/manual/migrations/tracked-tables-hasura-set-up.png
   :alt: Schema for an article table
   :width: 40%

Step 7: Check the status of migrations
--------------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   # in project dir
   hasura migrate status

This command will print out each migration version present in the ``migrations``
directory and the ones applied on the database, along with a status text.

For example,

.. code-block:: bash

   $ hasura migrate status
   VERSION        SOURCE STATUS  DATABASE STATUS
   1550925483858  Present        Present
   1550931962927  Present        Present
   1550931970826  Present        Present

Such a migration status indicates that there are 3 migration versions in the
local directory and all of them are applied on the database.

If ``SOURCE STATUS`` indicates ``Not Present``, it means that the migration
version is present on the server, but not on the current user's local directory.
This typically happens if multiple people are collaborating on a project and one
of the collaborators forgot to pull the latest changes which included the latest
migration files or another collaborator forgot to push the latest migration
files that were applied on the database. Syncing of the files would fix the
issue.

If ``DATABASE STATUS`` indicates ``Not Present``, it denotes that there are new
migration versions in the local directory which are not applied on the database
yet. Executing a ``migrate apply`` will resolve this.

Commit message:

add note on directories to v1

docs/graphql/manual/migrations/config-v1/manage-migrations.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Manage migrations on an existing database and Hasura instance
   :keywords: hasura, docs, migration, existing database

.. _manage_migrations_v1:

Managing Postgres schema migrations and metadata (config v1)
============================================================

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

Introduction
------------

If you don't already use any tool to manage your Postgres schema, you can use
Hasura to do that for you. Hasura has a CLI which will help you save each
action that you do on the console, including creating tables/views and schema
modifying SQL statements, as YAML files. These files are called migrations and
they can be applied and rolled back step-by-step. These files can be version
controlled and can be used with your CI/CD system to make incremental updates.

Let's say we have the following two tables in our schema:

.. code-block:: sql

    author (id uuid, name text, rating integer)
    article (id uuid, title text, content text, author_id uuid)

Now we want to set up migrations for this schema.

Step 0: Disable the console on the server
-----------------------------------------

To use migrations effectively, the console on the server (which is served at
``/console``) should be disabled and all changes must go through the console
served by the CLI. Otherwise, changes could be made through the server console
and they will not be tracked by migrations.

So, the first step is to disable the console served by the GraphQL engine server. In
order to do that, remove the ``--enable-console`` flag from the command that starts
the server or set the following environment variable to false:

.. code-block:: bash

   HASURA_GRAPHQL_ENABLE_CONSOLE=false

.. note::

   If this is set in YAML, make sure you quote the word false, i.e.
   ``HASURA_GRAPHQL_ENABLE_CONSOLE: "false"``.

Step 1: Install the Hasura CLI
------------------------------

Follow the instructions in :ref:`install_hasura_cli`.

Step 2: Set up a project directory
----------------------------------

For the endpoint referred here, let's say you've
deployed the GraphQL engine on Heroku, then this endpoint is:
``https://my-graphql.herokuapp.com``. In case you've deployed this using Docker,
the URL might be ``http://xx.xx.xx.xx:8080``. This endpoint should **not** contain
the ``v1/graphql`` API path. It should just be the hostname and any
sub-path if it is configured that way. 

Let's set up a project directory by executing the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  hasura init --directory my-project --endpoint http://my-graphql.herokuapp.com

  cd my-project

This will create a new directory called ``my-project`` with a ``config.yaml``
file and a ``migrations`` directory. This directory structure is mandatory to use
Hasura migrations. You can commit this directory to version control.

.. note::

   In case there is an admin secret set, you can set it as an environment
   variable ``HASURA_GRAPHQL_ADMIN_SECRET=<your-admin-secret>`` on the local
   machine and the CLI will use it. You can also use it as a flag to CLI:
   ``--admin-secret '<your-admin-secret>'``.

Step 3: Initialize the migrations (optional)
--------------------------------------------

In case you have already set up your database we will need to initialize our
migrations with the current state of the database.

Create a migration called ``init`` by exporting the current Postgres schema and
metadata from the server:

.. code-block:: bash

   # (available after version v1.0.0-alpha45)
   # create migration files (note that this will only export the public schema from postgres)
   hasura migrate create "init" --from-server

   # note down the version
   # mark the migration as applied on this server
   hasura migrate apply --version "<version>" --skip-execution


This command will create a new migration under the ``migrations`` directory
with the file name as ``<timestamp(version)>_init.up.yaml``. This file will
contain the required information to reproduce the current state of the server
including the Postgres (public) schema and Hasura metadata. The apply command
will mark this migration as "applied" on the server. If you'd like to read more
about the format of migration files, check out the :ref:`migration_file_format_v1`.

.. note::

   From version ``v1.0.0`` and higher, a directory is created for each migration with the name format ``timestamp_name``.
   The directory contains four files: ``up.sql``, ``up.yaml``, ``down.sql`` and ``down.yaml``.

.. note::

  If you need to export other schemas along with ``public``, you can name them using the
  ``--schema`` flag. 
  
  For example, to export schemas ``public``, ``schema1`` and ``schema2``,
  execute the following command:

  .. code-block:: bash

     hasura migrate create "init" --from-server --schema "public" --schema "schema1" --schema "schema2"

Step 4: Use the console from the CLI
------------------------------------

From this point onwards, instead of using the console at
``http://my-graphql.herokuapp.com/console`` you should use the console from the CLI
by running:

.. code-block:: bash

   # in project dir
   hasura console

Step 5: Add a new table and see how a migration is added
--------------------------------------------------------

As you use the Hasura console UI to make changes to your schema, migration files
are automatically generated in the ``migrations/`` directory in your project.

Let's add the following table to our schema:

.. code-block:: sql

    address (id uuid, street text, zip text, city text, country text)

In the migrations directory, you should now see a new migration created for the above statement.

.. note::

   Migrations are only created when using the console through CLI.

Step 6: Apply the migrations on another instance of the GraphQL engine
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Apply all migrations present in the ``migrations/`` directory on a new
instance at ``http://another-graphql-instance.herokuapp.com``:

.. code-block:: bash

   # in project dir
   hasura migrate apply --endpoint http://another-graphql-instance.herokuapp.com

In case you need an automated way of applying the migrations, take a look at the
:ref:`CLI-Migrations <auto_apply_migrations_v1>` Docker image, which can start the
GraphQL engine after automatically applying the migrations which are
mounted into a directory.

If you now open the console of the new instance, you can see that the three tables have been created and are tracked:

.. thumbnail:: /img/graphql/manual/migrations/tracked-tables-hasura-set-up.png
   :alt: Schema for an article table
   :width: 40%

Step 7: Check the status of migrations
--------------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   # in project dir
   hasura migrate status

This command will print out each migration version present in the ``migrations``
directory and the ones applied on the database, along with a status text.

For example,

.. code-block:: bash

   $ hasura migrate status
   VERSION        SOURCE STATUS  DATABASE STATUS
   1550925483858  Present        Present
   1550931962927  Present        Present
   1550931970826  Present        Present

Such a migration status indicates that there are 3 migration versions in the
local directory and all of them are applied on the database.

If ``SOURCE STATUS`` indicates ``Not Present``, it means that the migration
version is present on the server, but not on the current user's local directory.
This typically happens if multiple people are collaborating on a project and one
of the collaborators forgot to pull the latest changes which included the latest
migration files or another collaborator forgot to push the latest migration
files that were applied on the database. Syncing of the files would fix the
issue.

If ``DATABASE STATUS`` indicates ``Not Present``, it denotes that there are new
migration versions in the local directory which are not applied on the database
yet. Executing a ``migrate apply`` will resolve this.
