docs/graphql/manual/api-reference/schema-metadata-api/scheduled-triggers.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Manage scheduled triggers with the Hasura schema/metadata API
   :keywords: hasura, docs, schema/metadata API, API reference, scheduled trigger

Schema/Metadata API Reference: Scheduled Triggers
=================================================

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

Scheduled triggers are used to invoke webhooks based on a timestamp or cron.

.. _create_scheduled_trigger:

create_scheduled_trigger
------------------------

``create_scheduled_trigger`` is used to create a new scheduled trigger.

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "create_scheduled_trigger",
       "args" : {
           "name": "sample_cron",
           "webhook": "https://httpbin.org/post",
           "schedule": {
               "type": "cron",
               "value": "* * * * *"
           },
           "payload": {
               "key1": "value1",
               "key2": "value2"
           }
       }
   }

.. _create_scheduled_trigger_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - TriggerName_
     - Name of the scheduled trigger
   * - webhook
     - true
     - Text | UrlFromEnv_
     - URL of webhook or environment variable which has the URL
   * - schedule
     - true
     - ScheduleConf_
     - Schedule configuration
   * - payload
     - false
     - JSON
     - Any JSON payload which will be sent with the scheduled event
   * - headers
     - false
     - [ HeaderFromValue_ | HeaderFromEnv_ ]
     - List of headers to be sent with the webhook
   * - retry_conf
     - false
     - RetryConfST_
     - Retry configuration if scheduled event delivery fails


.. _update_scheduled_trigger:

update_scheduled_trigger
------------------------

``update_scheduled_trigger`` is used to update an existing scheduled trigger.

.. _update_scheduled_trigger_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - TriggerName_
     - Name of the scheduled trigger
   * - webhook
     - true
     - Text | UrlFromEnv_
     - URL of webhook or environment variable which has the URL
   * - schedule
     - true
     - ScheduleConf_
     - Schedule configuration
   * - payload
     - false
     - JSON
     - Any JSON payload which will be sent with the scheduled event
   * - headers
     - false
     - [ HeaderFromValue_ | HeaderFromEnv_ ]
     - List of headers to be sent with the webhook
   * - retry_conf
     - false
     - RetryConfST_
     - Retry configuration if scheduled event delivery fails

.. _delete_scheduled_trigger:

delete_scheduled_trigger
------------------------

``delete_scheduled_trigger`` is used to delete an existing scheduled trigger.

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "delete_scheduled_trigger",
       "args" : {
           "name": "sample_cron"
       }
   }

.. _delete_scheduled_trigger_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - TriggerName_
     - Name of the scheduled trigger

.. _create_scheduled_event:

create_scheduled_event
----------------------

``create_scheduled_event`` is used to create a new scheduled event with a given timestamp and optional payload.

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "create_scheduled_event",
       "args" : {
           "name": "sample-adhoc",
           "timestamp": "2020-02-14 22:00:00 Z",
           "payload": { "k" : "v"}
       }
   }

.. _create_scheduled_event_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - Text
     - Name of the scheduled trigger
   * - timestamp
     - true
     - UTCTime
     - UTC Timestamp to invoke the trigger in ISO8601 format
   * - payload
     - false
     - Object
     - Any object to send with the trigger, will override configured payload

.. _cancel_scheduled_event:

cancel_scheduled_event
----------------------

``cancel_scheduled_event`` is used to cancel a particular run of a scheduled trigger.

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "cancel_scheduled_event",
       "args" : {
           "event_id": "237b604c-67f1-4aa8-8453-36855cfebfc4"
       }
   }

.. _cancel_scheduled_event_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - event_id
     - true
     - UUID
     - ID of the scheduled event

.. _track_scheduled_trigger:

track_scheduled_trigger
-----------------------

``track_scheduled_trigger`` is used to enable export of scheduled trigger in metadata. By default, scheduled triggers are untracked.
This is because different Scheduled Triggers can have different configurations which may be related to user data and hence may not make
sense to be included in the metadata. For e.g. a one-time scheduled event which has a payload of some user-id should not be in metadata.

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "track_scheduled_trigger",
       "args" : {
           "name": "sample_cron"
       }
   }

.. _track_scheduled_trigger_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - TriggerName_
     - Name of the scheduled trigger

.. _untrack_scheduled_trigger:

untrack_scheduled_trigger
-------------------------

``untrack_scheduled_trigger`` is used to disable export of scheduled trigger in metadata. See track_scheduled_trigger_ .

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "untrack_scheduled_trigger",
       "args" : {
           "name": "sample_cron"
       }
   }

.. _untrack_scheduled_trigger_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - TriggerName_
     - Name of the scheduled trigger


.. _TriggerName:

TriggerName
&&&&&&&&&&&

.. parsed-literal::

  String

.. _UrlFromEnv:

UrlFromEnv
&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - from_env
     - true
     - String
     - Name of the environment variable which has the URL

.. _ScheduleConf:

ScheduleConf
&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - type
     - true
     - cron | adhoc
     - Type of scheduled trigger
   * - value
     - false
     - String
     - If type is cron, then cron expression. If type is adhoc, then optional timestamp

.. _HeaderFromValue:

HeaderFromValue
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - String
     - Name of the header
   * - value
     - true
     - String
     - Value of the header

.. _HeaderFromEnv:

HeaderFromEnv
&&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - String
     - Name of the header
   * - value_from_env
     - true
     - String
     - Name of the environment variable which holds the value of the header

.. _RetryConfST:

RetryConfST
&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - num_retries
     - false
     - Integer
     - Number of times to retry delivery. Default: 0
   * - retry_interval_seconds
     - false
     - Integer
     - Number of seconds to wait between each retry. Default: 10
   * - timeout_seconds
     - false
     - Integer
     - Number of seconds to wait for response before timing out. Default: 60
   * - tolerance_seconds
     - false
     - Integer
     - Number of seconds between scheduled time and actual delivery time that is acceptable. If the time difference is more than this, then the event is dropped. Default: 21600 (6 hours)

Commit message:

update the scheduled triggers ScheduleConf docs

docs/graphql/manual/api-reference/schema-metadata-api/scheduled-triggers.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Manage scheduled triggers with the Hasura schema/metadata API
   :keywords: hasura, docs, schema/metadata API, API reference, scheduled trigger

Schema/Metadata API Reference: Scheduled Triggers
=================================================

.. contents:: Table of contents
  :backlinks: none
  :depth: 1
  :local:

Scheduled triggers are used to invoke webhooks based on a timestamp or cron.

.. _create_scheduled_trigger:

create_scheduled_trigger
------------------------

``create_scheduled_trigger`` is used to create a new scheduled trigger.

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "create_scheduled_trigger",
       "args" : {
           "name": "sample_cron",
           "webhook": "https://httpbin.org/post",
           "schedule": {
               "type": "cron",
               "value": "* * * * *"
           },
           "payload": {
               "key1": "value1",
               "key2": "value2"
           }
       }
   }

.. _create_scheduled_trigger_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - TriggerName_
     - Name of the scheduled trigger
   * - webhook
     - true
     - Text | UrlFromEnv_
     - URL of webhook or environment variable which has the URL
   * - schedule
     - true
     - ScheduleConf_
     - Schedule configuration
   * - payload
     - false
     - JSON
     - Any JSON payload which will be sent with the scheduled event
   * - headers
     - false
     - [ HeaderFromValue_ | HeaderFromEnv_ ]
     - List of headers to be sent with the webhook
   * - retry_conf
     - false
     - RetryConfST_
     - Retry configuration if scheduled event delivery fails


.. _update_scheduled_trigger:

update_scheduled_trigger
------------------------

``update_scheduled_trigger`` is used to update an existing scheduled trigger.

.. _update_scheduled_trigger_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - TriggerName_
     - Name of the scheduled trigger
   * - webhook
     - true
     - Text | UrlFromEnv_
     - URL of webhook or environment variable which has the URL
   * - schedule
     - true
     - ScheduleConf_
     - Schedule configuration
   * - payload
     - false
     - JSON
     - Any JSON payload which will be sent with the scheduled event
   * - headers
     - false
     - [ HeaderFromValue_ | HeaderFromEnv_ ]
     - List of headers to be sent with the webhook
   * - retry_conf
     - false
     - RetryConfST_
     - Retry configuration if scheduled event delivery fails

.. _delete_scheduled_trigger:

delete_scheduled_trigger
------------------------

``delete_scheduled_trigger`` is used to delete an existing scheduled trigger.

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "delete_scheduled_trigger",
       "args" : {
           "name": "sample_cron"
       }
   }

.. _delete_scheduled_trigger_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - TriggerName_
     - Name of the scheduled trigger

.. _create_scheduled_event:

create_scheduled_event
----------------------

``create_scheduled_event`` is used to create a new scheduled event with a given timestamp and optional payload.

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "create_scheduled_event",
       "args" : {
           "name": "sample-adhoc",
           "timestamp": "2020-02-14 22:00:00 Z",
           "payload": { "k" : "v"}
       }
   }

.. _create_scheduled_event_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - Text
     - Name of the scheduled trigger
   * - timestamp
     - true
     - UTCTime
     - UTC Timestamp to invoke the trigger in ISO8601 format
   * - payload
     - false
     - Object
     - Any object to send with the trigger, will override configured payload

.. _cancel_scheduled_event:

cancel_scheduled_event
----------------------

``cancel_scheduled_event`` is used to cancel a particular run of a scheduled trigger.

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "cancel_scheduled_event",
       "args" : {
           "event_id": "237b604c-67f1-4aa8-8453-36855cfebfc4"
       }
   }

.. _cancel_scheduled_event_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - event_id
     - true
     - UUID
     - ID of the scheduled event

.. _track_scheduled_trigger:

track_scheduled_trigger
-----------------------

``track_scheduled_trigger`` is used to enable export of scheduled trigger in metadata. By default, scheduled triggers are untracked.
This is because different Scheduled Triggers can have different configurations which may be related to user data and hence may not make
sense to be included in the metadata. For e.g. a one-time scheduled event which has a payload of some user-id should not be in metadata.

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "track_scheduled_trigger",
       "args" : {
           "name": "sample_cron"
       }
   }

.. _track_scheduled_trigger_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - TriggerName_
     - Name of the scheduled trigger

.. _untrack_scheduled_trigger:

untrack_scheduled_trigger
-------------------------

``untrack_scheduled_trigger`` is used to disable export of scheduled trigger in metadata. See track_scheduled_trigger_ .

.. code-block:: http

   POST /v1/query HTTP/1.1
   Content-Type: application/json
   X-Hasura-Role: admin

   {
       "type" : "untrack_scheduled_trigger",
       "args" : {
           "name": "sample_cron"
       }
   }

.. _untrack_scheduled_trigger_syntax:

Args syntax
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - Required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - TriggerName_
     - Name of the scheduled trigger


.. _TriggerName:

TriggerName
&&&&&&&&&&&

.. parsed-literal::

  String

.. _UrlFromEnv:

UrlFromEnv
&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - from_env
     - true
     - String
     - Name of the environment variable which has the URL

.. _ScheduleConf:

ScheduleConf
&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - type
     - true
     - cron expression | optional timestamp (ISO-8601 format)
     - Type of scheduled trigger
   * - value
     - true (when type is ``cron``).
       false (when type is ``adhoc``)
     - String
     - When the type is ``cron``, then a cron expression is expected
       . When the  type is ``adhoc``, then an optional timestamp(in ISO-8601 format) is expected,
       if a timestamp is provided, then a scheduled event will be created with the timestamp provided
       along with creating the scheduled trigger.




.. _HeaderFromValue:

HeaderFromValue
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - String
     - Name of the header
   * - value
     - true
     - String
     - Value of the header

.. _HeaderFromEnv:

HeaderFromEnv
&&&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - name
     - true
     - String
     - Name of the header
   * - value_from_env
     - true
     - String
     - Name of the environment variable which holds the value of the header

.. _RetryConfST:

RetryConfST
&&&&&&&&&&&

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Key
     - required
     - Schema
     - Description
   * - num_retries
     - false
     - Integer
     - Number of times to retry delivery. Default: 0
   * - retry_interval_seconds
     - false
     - Integer
     - Number of seconds to wait between each retry. Default: 10
   * - timeout_seconds
     - false
     - Integer
     - Number of seconds to wait for response before timing out. Default: 60
   * - tolerance_seconds
     - false
     - Integer
     - Number of seconds between scheduled time and actual delivery time that is acceptable. If the time difference is more than this, then the event is dropped. Default: 21600 (6 hours)
