docs/graphql/manual/hasura-cli/hasura_migrate_create.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Use hasura migrate create to create migration files for Hasura migrations with the Hasura CLI
   :keywords: hasura, docs, CLI, hasura migrate create

.. _hasura_migrate_create:

Hasura CLI: hasura migrate create
---------------------------------

Create files required for a migration.

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~


Create ``sql`` and ``yaml`` files required for a migration.

::

  hasura migrate create [migration-name] [flags]

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    # Setup migration files for the first time by introspecting a server:
    hasura migrate create "init" --from-server

    # Use with admin secret:
    hasura migrate create --admin-secret "<admin-secret>"

    # Setup migration files from an instance mentioned by the flag:
    hasura migrate create init --from-server --endpoint "<endpoint>"

Options
~~~~~~~

::

      --from-server                 get SQL statements and Hasura metadata from the server
  -h, --help                        help for create
      --metadata-from-file string   path to a hasura metadata file to be used for up actions
      --metadata-from-server        take metadata from the server and write it as an up migration file
      --schema stringArray          name of Postgres schema to export as a migration (default [public])
      --sql-from-file string        path to an SQL file which contains the SQL statements
      --sql-from-server             take pg_dump from the server and save it as a migration

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --admin-secret string   admin secret for Hasura GraphQL engine
      --endpoint string       http(s) endpoint for Hasura GraphQL engine
      --log-level string      log level (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL) (default "INFO")
      --no-color              do not colorize output (default: false)
      --project string        directory where commands are executed (default: current dir)
      --skip-update-check     skip automatic update check on command execution

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`hasura migrate <hasura_migrate>` 	 - Manage migrations on the database

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra*

Commit message:

[skip ci] Replace non-Haskell assets with master (f8a7312)
In order to get the PDV refactor branch closer to master, this commit replaces all non-Haskell assets with the version currently on master.  This has a few advantages:

- Merging to master later on will be slightly easier
- We get access to newer tools such as an updated console, which can be used to debug our work on the server
- We get an updated test suite which potentially shows bugs we didn't consider yet.

docs/graphql/manual/hasura-cli/hasura_migrate_create.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Use hasura migrate create to create migration files for Hasura migrations with the Hasura CLI
   :keywords: hasura, docs, CLI, hasura migrate create

.. _hasura_migrate_create:

Hasura CLI: hasura migrate create
---------------------------------

Create files required for a migration.

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~


Create ``sql`` and ``yaml`` files required for a migration.

::

  hasura migrate create [migration-name] [flags]

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    # Setup migration files for the first time by introspecting a server:
    hasura migrate create "init" --from-server

    # Use with admin secret:
    hasura migrate create --admin-secret "<admin-secret>"

    # Setup migration files from an instance mentioned by the flag:
    hasura migrate create init --from-server --endpoint "<endpoint>"

    # Take pg_dump of schema and hasura metadata from server while specifying the schemas to include
    hasura migrate create init --from-server --schema myschema1,myschema2

    # Take pg_dump from server and save it as a migration and specify the schemas to include
    hasura migrate create init --sql-from-server --schema myschema1,myschema2

Options
~~~~~~~

::

      --from-server                 get SQL statements and Hasura metadata from the server
  -h, --help                        help for create
      --metadata-from-file string   path to a hasura metadata file to be used for up actions
      --metadata-from-server        take metadata from the server and write it as an up migration file
      --schema strings              name of Postgres schema to export as a migration. provide multiple schemas with a comma separated list e.g. --schema public,user (default [public])
      --sql-from-file string        path to an SQL file which contains the SQL statements
      --sql-from-server             take pg_dump from the server and save it as a migration

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --admin-secret string            admin secret for Hasura GraphQL engine
      --certificate-authority string   path to a cert file for the certificate authority
      --endpoint string                http(s) endpoint for Hasura GraphQL engine
      --envfile string                 .env filename to load ENV vars from (default ".env")
      --insecure-skip-tls-verify       skip TLS verification and disable cert checking (default: false)
      --log-level string               log level (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL) (default "INFO")
      --no-color                       do not colorize output (default: false)
      --project string                 directory where commands are executed (default: current dir)
      --skip-update-check              Skip automatic update check on command execution

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`hasura migrate <hasura_migrate>` 	 - Manage migrations on the database

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra*
