docs/graphql/manual/hasura-cli/hasura_console.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Use hasura console to open the Hasura console from the Hasura CLI
   :keywords: hasura, docs, CLI, hasura console

.. _hasura_console:

Hasura CLI: hasura console
--------------------------

Open the console to manage the database and try out APIs.

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~


Run a web server to serve the Hasura console for the GraphQL engine to manage the database and build queries.

::

  hasura console [flags]

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    # Start console:
    hasura console

    # Start console on a different address and ports:
    hasura console --address 0.0.0.0 --console-port 8080 --api-port 8081

    # Start console without opening the browser automatically
    hasura console --no-browser

    # Use with admin secret:
    hasura console --admin-secret "<admin-secret>"

    # Connect to an instance specified by the flag, overrides the one mentioned in config.yaml:
    hasura console --endpoint "<endpoint>"

Options
~~~~~~~

::

      --address string        address to serve console and migration API from (default "localhost")
      --admin-secret string   admin secret for Hasura GraphQL engine
      --api-port string       port for serving migrate api (default "9693")
      --browser string        open console in a specific browser
      --console-port string   port for serving console (default "9695")
      --endpoint string       http(s) endpoint for Hasura GraphQL engine
  -h, --help                  help for console
      --no-browser            do not automatically open console in browser
      --static-dir string     directory where static assets mentioned in the console html template can be served from

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --log-level string    log level (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL) (default "INFO")
      --no-color            do not colorize output (default: false)
      --project string      directory where commands are executed (default: current dir)
      --skip-update-check   skip automatic update check on command execution

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`hasura <hasura>` 	 - Hasura GraphQL engine command line tool

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra*

Commit message:

[skip ci] Replace non-Haskell assets with master (f8a7312)
In order to get the PDV refactor branch closer to master, this commit replaces all non-Haskell assets with the version currently on master.  This has a few advantages:

- Merging to master later on will be slightly easier
- We get access to newer tools such as an updated console, which can be used to debug our work on the server
- We get an updated test suite which potentially shows bugs we didn't consider yet.

docs/graphql/manual/hasura-cli/hasura_console.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Use hasura console to open the Hasura console from the Hasura CLI
   :keywords: hasura, docs, CLI, hasura console

.. _hasura_console:

Hasura CLI: hasura console
--------------------------

Open the console to manage the database and try out APIs.

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~


Run a web server to serve the Hasura console for the GraphQL engine to manage the database and build queries.

::

  hasura console [flags]

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    # Start console:
    hasura console

    # Start console on a different address and ports:
    hasura console --address 0.0.0.0 --console-port 8080 --api-port 8081

    # Start console without opening the browser automatically
    hasura console --no-browser

    # Use with admin secret:
    hasura console --admin-secret "<admin-secret>"

    # Connect to an instance specified by the flag, overrides the one mentioned in config.yaml:
    hasura console --endpoint "<endpoint>"

Options
~~~~~~~

::

      --address string                 address to serve console and migration API from (default "localhost")
      --admin-secret string            admin secret for Hasura GraphQL Engine 
      --api-port string                port for serving migrate api (default "9693")
      --browser string                 open console in a specific browser
      --certificate-authority string   path to a cert file for the certificate authority 
      --console-port string            port for serving console (default "9695")
      --endpoint string                http(s) endpoint for Hasura GraphQL Engine 
  -h, --help                           help for console
      --insecure-skip-tls-verify       skip TLS verification and disable cert checking (default: false) 
      --no-browser                     do not automatically open console in browser
      --static-dir string              directory where static assets mentioned in the console html template can be served from

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --envfile string      .env filename to load ENV vars from (default ".env")
      --log-level string    log level (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL) (default "INFO")
      --no-color            do not colorize output (default: false)
      --project string      directory where commands are executed (default: current dir)
      --skip-update-check   skip automatic update check on command execution

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`hasura <hasura>` 	 - Hasura GraphQL engine command line tool

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra*
