docs/graphql/manual/hasura-cli/hasura_plugins.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Use hasura plugins to manage Hasura plugins on the Hasura CLI
   :keywords: hasura, docs, CLI, hasura plugins

.. _hasura_plugins:

Hasura CLI: hasura plugins
--------------------------

Manage Hasura plugins.

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~


Manage Hasura plugins.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    # Install a plugin
    hasura plugins install [plugin-name]
  	  
    # Uninstall a plugin
    hasura plugins uninstall [plugin-name]
  	  
    # Upgrade a plugin
    hasura plugins upgrade [plugin-name]

    # List all plugins
    hasura plugins list

Options
~~~~~~~

::

  -h, --help   help for plugins

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --log-level string    log level (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL) (default "INFO")
      --no-color            do not colorize output (default: false)
      --project string      directory where commands are executed (default: current dir)
      --skip-update-check   skip automatic update check on command execution

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`hasura <hasura>` 	 - Hasura GraphQL engine command line tool
* :ref:`hasura plugins install <hasura_plugins_install>` 	 - Install a hasura plugin
* :ref:`hasura plugins list <hasura_plugins_list>` 	 - List all hasura plugin
* :ref:`hasura plugins uninstall <hasura_plugins_uninstall>` 	 - Uninstall a hasura plugin
* :ref:`hasura plugins upgrade <hasura_plugins_upgrade>` 	 - Upgrade a hasura plugin

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra*

Commit message:

[skip ci] Replace non-Haskell assets with master (f8a7312)
In order to get the PDV refactor branch closer to master, this commit replaces all non-Haskell assets with the version currently on master.  This has a few advantages:

- Merging to master later on will be slightly easier
- We get access to newer tools such as an updated console, which can be used to debug our work on the server
- We get an updated test suite which potentially shows bugs we didn't consider yet.

docs/graphql/manual/hasura-cli/hasura_plugins.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Use hasura plugins to manage Hasura plugins on the Hasura CLI
   :keywords: hasura, docs, CLI, hasura plugins

.. _hasura_plugins:

Hasura CLI: hasura plugins
--------------------------

Manage Hasura plugins.

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~


Manage Hasura plugins.

Plugins can be installed to extend the functionality of Hasura CLI
An index for all available plugins can be found at 
https://github.com/hasura/cli-plugins-index

Please open pull requests against this repo to add new plugins

Alias: plugin
Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    # Install a plugin
    hasura plugins install [plugin-name]
  	  
    # Uninstall a plugin
    hasura plugins uninstall [plugin-name]
  	  
    # Upgrade a plugin
    hasura plugins upgrade [plugin-name]

    # List all plugins
    hasura plugins list

Options
~~~~~~~

::

  -h, --help   help for plugins

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --envfile string      .env filename to load ENV vars from (default ".env")
      --log-level string    log level (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL) (default "INFO")
      --no-color            do not colorize output (default: false)
      --project string      directory where commands are executed (default: current dir)
      --skip-update-check   skip automatic update check on command execution

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`hasura <hasura>` 	 - Hasura GraphQL engine command line tool
* :ref:`hasura plugins install <hasura_plugins_install>` 	 - Install a hasura plugin
* :ref:`hasura plugins list <hasura_plugins_list>` 	 - List all hasura plugin
* :ref:`hasura plugins uninstall <hasura_plugins_uninstall>` 	 - Uninstall a hasura plugin
* :ref:`hasura plugins upgrade <hasura_plugins_upgrade>` 	 - Upgrade a hasura plugin

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra*
