docs/graphql/manual/hasura-cli/hasura_plugins_upgrade.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Use hasura plugins upgrade to upgrade a Hasura plugin on the Hasura CLI
   :keywords: hasura, docs, CLI, hasura plugins upgrade

.. _hasura_plugins_upgrade:

Hasura CLI: hasura plugins upgrade
----------------------------------

Upgrade a Hasura plugin.

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~


Upgrade a Hasura plugin.

::

  hasura plugins upgrade [flags]

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    # Upgrade a plugin
    hasura plugins upgrade [plugin-name]

Options
~~~~~~~

::

  -h, --help   help for upgrade

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --log-level string    log level (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL) (default "INFO")
      --no-color            do not colorize output (default: false)
      --project string      directory where commands are executed (default: current dir)
      --skip-update-check   skip automatic update check on command execution

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`hasura plugins <hasura_plugins>` 	 - Manage hasura plugins

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra*

Commit message:

[skip ci] Replace non-Haskell assets with master (f8a7312)
In order to get the PDV refactor branch closer to master, this commit replaces all non-Haskell assets with the version currently on master.  This has a few advantages:

- Merging to master later on will be slightly easier
- We get access to newer tools such as an updated console, which can be used to debug our work on the server
- We get an updated test suite which potentially shows bugs we didn't consider yet.

docs/graphql/manual/hasura-cli/hasura_plugins_upgrade.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Use hasura plugins upgrade to upgrade a Hasura plugin on the Hasura CLI
   :keywords: hasura, docs, CLI, hasura plugins upgrade

.. _hasura_plugins_upgrade:

Hasura CLI: hasura plugins upgrade
----------------------------------

Upgrade a Hasura plugin.

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~


Upgrade a Hasura plugin.

::

  hasura plugins upgrade [flags]

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    # Upgrade a plugin
    hasura plugins upgrade [plugin-name]

Options
~~~~~~~

::

  -h, --help             help for upgrade
      --version string   version to be upgraded

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --envfile string      .env filename to load ENV vars from (default ".env")
      --log-level string    log level (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL) (default "INFO")
      --no-color            do not colorize output (default: false)
      --project string      directory where commands are executed (default: current dir)
      --skip-update-check   skip automatic update check on command execution

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`hasura plugins <hasura_plugins>` 	 - Manage hasura plugins

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra*
