docs/graphql/manual/hasura-cli/hasura_actions.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: Use hasura actions to manage actions on the Hasura CLI
   :keywords: hasura, docs, CLI, hasura actions

.. _hasura_actions:

Hasura CLI: hasura actions
--------------------------

Manage actions on hasura.

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~

Manage actions on hasura.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    # Create an action
    hasura actions create [action-name]

    # Generate code for an actions
    hasura actions codegen [action-name]

    # Set a framework to be used by codegen
    hasura actions use-codegen

Options
~~~~~~~

::

      --admin-secret string   admin secret for Hasura GraphQL engine
      --endpoint string       http(s) endpoint for Hasura GraphQL engine
  -h, --help                  help for actions

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --log-level string    log level (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL) (default "INFO")
      --no-color            do not colorize output (default: false)
      --project string      directory where commands are executed (default: current dir)
      --skip-update-check   skip automatic update check on command execution

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`hasura <hasura>` 	 - Hasura GraphQL engine command line tool
* :ref:`hasura actions codegen <hasura_actions_codegen>` 	 - Generate code for actions
* :ref:`hasura actions create <hasura_actions_create>` 	 - Create a hasura action
* :ref:`hasura actions use-codegen <hasura_actions_use-codegen>` 	 - Use the codegen to generate code for hasura actions

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra*

Commit message:

[skip ci] Replace non-Haskell assets with master (f8a7312)
In order to get the PDV refactor branch closer to master, this commit replaces all non-Haskell assets with the version currently on master.  This has a few advantages:

- Merging to master later on will be slightly easier
- We get access to newer tools such as an updated console, which can be used to debug our work on the server
- We get an updated test suite which potentially shows bugs we didn't consider yet.

docs/graphql/manual/hasura-cli/hasura_actions.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: Use hasura actions to manage actions on the Hasura CLI
   :keywords: hasura, docs, CLI, hasura actions

.. _hasura_actions:

Hasura CLI: hasura actions
--------------------------

Manage actions on hasura.

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~

Manage actions on hasura.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    # Create an action
    hasura actions create [action-name]

    # Generate code for an actions
    hasura actions codegen [action-name]

    # Set a framework to be used by codegen
    hasura actions use-codegen

Options
~~~~~~~

::

      --admin-secret string            admin secret for Hasura GraphQL engine
      --certificate-authority string   path to a cert file for the certificate authority 
      --endpoint string                http(s) endpoint for Hasura GraphQL engine 
  -h, --help                           help for actions
      --insecure-skip-tls-verify       skip TLS verification and disable cert checking (default: false)

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --envfile string      .env filename to load ENV vars from (default ".env")
      --log-level string    log level (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL) (default "INFO")
      --no-color            do not colorize output (default: false)
      --project string      directory where commands are executed (default: current dir)
      --skip-update-check   skip automatic update check on command execution

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`hasura <hasura>` 	 - Hasura GraphQL engine command line tool
* :ref:`hasura actions codegen <hasura_actions_codegen>` 	 - Generate code for actions
* :ref:`hasura actions create <hasura_actions_create>` 	 - Create a hasura action
* :ref:`hasura actions use-codegen <hasura_actions_use-codegen>` 	 - Use the codegen to generate code for hasura actions

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra*
