This note is in [Hasura.RQL.DDL.Permission](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/RQL/DDL/Permission.hs#L57).
It is referenced at:
  - line 74 of [Hasura.GraphQL.Schema.Mutation](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/GraphQL/Schema/Mutation.hs#L74)
  - line 121 of [Hasura.GraphQL.Schema.Mutation](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/GraphQL/Schema/Mutation.hs#L121)
  - line 354 of [Hasura.GraphQL.Schema.Mutation](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/GraphQL/Schema/Mutation.hs#L354)
  - line 388 of [Hasura.GraphQL.Schema.Mutation](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/GraphQL/Schema/Mutation.hs#L388)
  - line 286 of [Hasura.GraphQL.Schema.Update](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/GraphQL/Schema/Update.hs#L286)
  - line 321 of [Hasura.GraphQL.Schema.Update](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/GraphQL/Schema/Update.hs#L321)
  - line 191 of [Hasura.RQL.Types.Permission](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/RQL/Types/Permission.hs#L191)
  - line 246 of [Hasura.RQL.Types.Permission](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/RQL/Types/Permission.hs#L246)
  - line 274 of [Hasura.RQL.Types.Permission](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/RQL/Types/Permission.hs#L274)
  - line 175 of [Hasura.Session](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/Session.hs#L175)

# Backend only permissions

As of writing this note, Hasura permission system is meant to be used by the
frontend. After introducing "Actions", the webhook handlers now can make GraphQL
mutations to the server with some backend logic. These mutations shouldn't be
exposed to frontend for any user since they'll bypass the business logic.

Backend only permissions is available for all(insert/update/delete) mutation operations.

For example:-
=============

We've a table named "user" and it has a "email" column. We need to validate the
email address. So we define an action "create_user" and it expects the same inputs
as "insert_user" mutation (generated by Hasura). Note that both "create_user" and
"insert_user" can insert values into the "user" table but only "create_user" has the
logic to validate the email address.

In the current Hasura permission system, a role has permission for both 'actions' and
'insert operations' on the table. That means, both the "create_user" and "insert_user"
operations will be visible to the frontend client. This is bad, since users can use
"insert_user" operation to circumvent the validation logic of "create_user".

We can overcome this problem by using "Backend only permissions". In this if the
insert/update/delete permission is marked as "backend_only: true", then the insert
operation will not be visible to the frontend client unless specifically specified

Backend only permissions adds an additional privilege to Hasura generated operations.

Those are accessable only if the request is made with all of the following:
  * `x-hasura-admin-secret` (if authorization is configured),
  * `x-hasura-use-backend-only-permissions` (value must be set to "true"),
  * `x-hasura-role` to identify the role
  * other required session variables.

backend_only   `x-hasura-admin-secret`   `x-hasura-use-backend-only-permissions`  Result
------------    ---------------------     -------------------------------------   ------
FALSE           ANY                       ANY                                    Mutation is always visible (Default Case: When no authorization is setup)
TRUE            FALSE                     ANY                                    Mutation is always hidden
FALSE           TRUE                      ANY                                    Mutation is always visible
TRUE            TRUE (OR NOT-SET)         FALSE                                  Mutation is hidden
TRUE            TRUE (OR NOT-SET)         TRUE                                   Mutation is shown

case 1: default case - no authorization is set and no backend_only permission are set
then irresepective of the value of `x-hasura-use-backend-only-permissions` the
mutation will always be visible

case 2: the authorization is set and the backend_only permissions are set but the
`x-hasura-admin-secret` is not sent along with request then irresepective of the value
in `x-hasura-use-backend-only-permissions` the mutation will always be hidden

case 3: the authorization is set, but no backend_only permission are set, the
`x-hasura-admin-secret` is sent along with request then irresepective of the value
in `x-hasura-use-backend-only-permissions` the mutation will always be visible

case 4 and 5:
the authz is set and the backend_only permissions are also set and the
`x-hasura-admin` secret is also sent along with the request then:
  * if `x-hasura-use-backend-only-permissions` header is sent as FALSE along with the
    request then the mutation will be hidden (4th case)
  * if `x-hasura-use-backend-only-permissions` header is sent as TRUE along with the
    request then the mutation will be visible (5th case)

How it Works:-
===============

Hasura has two scenarios:
  * Frontend Scenario
  * Backend Scenario

When no backend-only permissions are set then Hasura runs only in frontend scenario,
i.e all the mutation operations are visible.

When backend-only permissions are set, there comes a notion of:
  * which mutations are visible by default i.e without any request headers (frontend scenario)
  * which mutations are visible when `x-hasura-use-backend-only-permissions` is set (backend scenario)

Hasura maintains two different graphql schema ('frontend schema' and 'backend schema')
for all mutation fields of a table:
  * 'frontend schema': info about the mutation operation allowed to be shown on the frontend client when no backend-only permissions is set
  * 'backend schema' : info about the mutation operation allowed to be shown on the frontend client when backend-only permissions is set

The generation of these schemas happen in the `buildSource` functions of
`buildRoleContext` and `buildRelayRoleContext` functions. The internal representation
of these schema's look like:
  {RoleName: (Frontend Schema/Default Schema, Backend Schema)}

For example:
------------
We've a table "user" tracked by hasura and a role "public"

* If the update permission for the table "user" is marked as backend_only then the
  GQL context for that table will look like:

    {"public": (["insert_user","delete_user"], ["update_user"])}

  In the above '["insert_user","delete_user"]' are the only mutation operation visible
  by default on the frontend client. And the 'update_user' opertaion is only visible
  when the `x-hasura-use-backend-only-permissions` request header is present.

* If there is no backend_only permissions defined on the role then the GQL context
  looks like:

    {"public": (["insert_user","delete_user", "update_user"], [])}

  In the above there is no specific schema for the backend scenario i.e all the
  mutation operations are visible by default.

